RHDEVDOCS-4280: Added a procedure to customize the user perspective (#51686)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/odc-customizing-user-perspective-using-CLI-and-UI.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * web_console/customizing-the-web-console.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="odc-customizing-user-perspective_{context}"]
= Customizing user perspective 

> The OCP web console provides two perspectives, namely *Administrator* and *Developer*. As a cluster administrator, you can show or hide a perspective to all users or a specific user role. Customizing the perspective ensures that users can view only the perspective that is applicable to their role and tasks, which avoids confusion. For example, hide the *Administrator* perspective from unprivileged users so that they cannot manage cluster resources, users, and projects or show the *Developer* perspective to users with the developer role so that they can create, deploy, and monitor applications. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OCP web console provides two perspectives by default, namely *Administrator* and *Developer*. More perspectives might be available depending on installed console plugins. As a cluster administrator, you can show or hide a perspective to all users or a specific user role. Customizing the perspective ensures that users can view only the perspective that is applicable to their role and tasks, which avoids confusion. For example, hide the *Administrator* perspective from unprivileged users so that they cannot manage cluster resources, users, and projects or show the *Developer* perspective to users with the developer role so that they can create, deploy, and monitor applications. 
```

You can also customize the perspective to show to or hide from users based on Role-based access control (RBAC). For example, if you customize a perspective for monitoring purposes, which requires specific permissions, you can define that the perspective is visible only to users with required permissions.

Each perspective includes the following mandatory parameters, which you can edit in the YAML view:

* `id`: Defines the ID of the perspective to show or hide
* `visibility`: Defines the state of the perspective along with access review checks, if needed 
* `state`: Defines whether the perspective is enabled, disabled, or needs an access review check

[NOTE]
====

> By default, both *Administrator* and *Developer* perspectives are enabled. When you customize the user perspective, your changes are applicable to the entire cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all perspectives are enabled. When you customize the user perspective, your changes are applicable to the entire cluster.
```

====

.Prerequisites
* You must have administrator privileges.

.Procedure to customize perspective using YAML view

. In the *Administrator* perspective, navigate to *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings*.
. Select the *Configuration* tab and click the *Console (operator.openshift.io)* resource.
. Click the *YAML* tab and make your customization: 
.. To enable or disable a perspective, insert the snippet for *Add user perspectives* and edit the YAML code as needed:
+ 
[source,yaml]
----

> spec:

Reviewer 2: The contrib guide say  to always include:

> Required fields
> Include the apiVersion and kind so that a user always knows the context of the YAML.
> 
> Include the full hierarchy to a deeply nested key.
> 
> For objects that are in the global scope, such as for config.openshift.io API group, always include the metadata.name for the object, which is usually cluster.

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#yaml-formatting-for-kubernetes-and-openshift-api-objects

----
.. To hide a perspective based on RBAC permissions, insert the snippet for *Hide user perspectives* and edit the YAML code as needed:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  customization:
    perspectives:
      - id: admin
        requiresAccessReview: 
          - group: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
            resource: clusterroles
            verb: list
      - id: dev
        state: Enabled
----
.. To customize a perspective based on your needs, create your own YAML snippet:
+  
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  customization:
    perspectives:
      - id: admin
        visibility: 
          state: AccessReview
          accessReview: 
            missing:
              - resource: deployment
                verb: list
            required:
              - resource: namespaces
                verb: list
      - id: dev
        visibility:
          state: Enabled
----

. Click *Save*.

.Procedure to customize perspective using form view

. In the *Administrator* perspective, navigate to *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings*.
. Select the *Configuration* tab and click the *Console (operator.openshift.io)* resource.
. Click *Actions* -> *Customize* on the right side of the page.

> . In the *General* settings, customize the *Administrator* and *Developer* perspectives by selecting one of the following options from the dropdown list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *General* settings, customize the perspectives by selecting one of the following options from the dropdown list:
```
